[Music]
why this lake is the most dangerous on
earth there are about 117 million lakes
on our planet and they cover almost 4
percent of the continental land 90
million of these lakes are pretty small
no bigger than the size of two football
field but if you were to combine the
shorelines of all the lakes in the world
you'd discover that their length is more
than 250 times the diameter of Earth
which is as long as seven thousand nine
hundred twenty six miles lakes can be
small or big clean or dirty vital for
local infrastructure or deadly and if
you've been wondering which lake is the
most dangerous in the world and why this
video will answer your questions but
before you learn the shocking truth
click the subscribe button to turn on
notifications this way you'll join other
brite ciders and will always be the
first to find out about daily updates on
the channel the most dangerous lake in
the world is situated in africa on the
border of the Democratic Republic of the
Congo and Rwanda it's a lake kii vu the
ninth deepest lake in the world at first
sight this Lake doesn't look threatening
at all it's just a big body of water
surrounded by picturesque hills and
small mountains so how come it's the
deadliest lake in the world surely it
can't be more murderous than the boiling
lake in Dominica the size of this lake
makes it the second largest hot spring
on the planet that temperature at its
edges reaches a hundred ninety seven
degrees fahrenheit in the middle of the
lake the water is literally boiling
nobody has been brave enough to measure
the temperature their how hot the lake
gets can't be controlled since molten
lava escapes through a crack in the lake
bed and nobody can stop this process
that sounds absolutely incredible
and now here we are telling you that
there's another lake that's more
dangerous than the boiling lake however
it's true perhaps the fact that Lake
kevo sometimes explodes and kills
everything in the vicinity contributes
to its reputation you think but what
happens to provoke these explosions such
a tragedy was recorded for the first
time at Lake manam located on the oku
volcanic field in Cameroon on August
15th 1984 a loud boom sounded from the
lake according to the locals people saw
a huge gas cloud over the surface of the
water this natural disaster took the
lives of 37 people 12 of them were in a
truck when the explosion happened as
they left the car to investigate the
deadly gas got to them all the victims
were reported to have bizarre skin
discoloration which first led
investigators to consider a terrorist
attack however this theory was incorrect
the theory was proved false two years
later on August 21st 1986 when a much
more disastrous explosion shook Lake
Nyos
which is located just 62 miles away from
Lake Malawi this time the catastrophe
happened at night and took the lives of
more than 1,700 people the nearby
villages of cha kam Neos and soo bum
were almost completely wiped out more
than 3,500 wild animals and cattle also
died within just a few minutes
local people called this Lake the bad
lake legend told that there was an evil
spirit living there when the spirit came
out of the lake it took the lives of
those who live nearby those who believe
in myths and tales might find proof of
the evil spirits existence in the fact
that after the explosion the water in
the lake changed color from crystal blue
to blood red but scientists knew better
originally Lake Nyos formed in a 400
year old volcanic crater such crater
lakes usually have extremely high levels
of co2 due to the volcanic activity
that's happening many miles beneath the
surface under normal circumstances this
gas is occasionally released during the
lake water turnover but the problem with
some lakes such as Lake Nyos is that
they're very still meaning that the
water doesn't move much as a result
instead of releasing co2 Lake Neos acted
as an extremely high pressure storage
unit it became more and more saturated
with gas eventually every gallon of lake
water contained five gallons of co2 this
turned the water reservoir into a real
time bomb in August 1986 something went
wrong with the lake perhaps it was a
tiny volcanic eruption unusually cold
rain or a landslide that released the
pressure whatever triggered the changes
it made the lake explode this rare
phenomenon is called a limnic eruptions
water from the lake shot 300 feet into
the air and caused an eighty-two foot
high tsunami more than 0.3 cubic miles
of co2 bursts into the air in just 20
seconds this cloud spread fast and far
up to 16 miles from the lake this huge
wave of lethal gas covered the nearest
villages people had almost no chance of
survival in the villages closest to the
lake only six out of eight hundred
people stayed alive they were the people
who thought of escaping to higher
altitudes on their motorcycles
co2 has a higher density than air which
means that it remains close to the
ground and pushes clear breathable air
up at the same time that's why people
who stayed inside their houses or ran
out to see what had caused such a loud
explosion died almost immediately due to
severe co2 poisoning as co2 spread
around the villages it extinguished all
the flames this created an eerie feeling
of doom as for the unusual colour of the
lake the change occurred thanks to the
iron that rose from the bottom of the
lake
nowadays measures have been taken to
prevent similar catastrophes from
happening the solution was quite simple
degassing authorities installed a pipe
that runs to the very bottom of Lake
Nyos it allows gas to escape on a
regular basis and while it's pressurized
local inhabitants have also acquired a
nice water fountain in the middle of the
lake powered by co2 at the same time
these precautions may fail one day the
thing is that on the lake there is a
natural dam which can fail at any moment
nobody knows what will happen if it does
specialists predict a possibility of a
double disaster gassing and flooding at
the same time now you may have a
question if Lake Nyos has already caused
such terrible destruction why is the
most dangerous lake in the world lake
kyboot the size of this lake is the
answer it's 1,000 times larger than Lake
Nyos and is located in a much more
densely populated area nowadays this
lake contains more than 55 billion cubic
meters of methane gas which is generated
at the bottom of the lake on top of that
it's also located in a crater and it's
volcanic rock bed has layers of carbon
dioxide according to historical records
this Lake explodes every 1000 years
killing everything inside its waters as
well as on its shores researchers
believe that if a volcanic disturbance
happen today it would cause an eruption
similar to the one on Lake
but much much worse either the methane
explosion or co2 poisoning could take
the lives of more than two million
people living in the basin of Lake kevo
unfortunately nobody knows when it might
happen and how such a tragedy could be
prevented would you dare visit any of
the lakes mentioned in this video
perhaps you know of another scary and
dangerous lake share your knowledge in
the comments below remember to give us a
thumbs up and subscribe to our Channel
things are always more exciting on the
bright side